# Refactoring

## functional programming
#### Functional programming is a programming paradigm — a style of building the structure and elements of computer programs — that treats computation as the evaluation of mathematical functions and avoids changing-state and mutable data.

## Pure functions
#### It returns the same result if given the same arguments and does not cause any observable side effects.

## Impure function

#### It reads external files, relies on a random number generator, and does not cause any observable side effects.

## Immutability
#### When data is immutable, its state cannot change after it’s created. If you want to change an immutable object, you can’t. Instead, you create a new object with the new value.

## Referential transparency
#### Basically, if a function consistently yields the same result for the same input, it is referentially transparent.
### pure functions + immutable data = referential transparency

## Functions as first-class entities
#### The idea of functions as first-class entities is that functions are also treated as values and used as data..

### Functions as first-class entities can:
1. refer to it from constants and variables.
2. pass it as a parameter to other functions.
3. return it as result from other functions.

## Higher-order functions
#### A function that either takes one or more functions as arguments or returns a function as its result.

## Filter
#### The filter function expects a true or false value to determine if the element should or should not be included in the result collection.

## Imperative approach
#### An imperative create an empty array evenNumbers,iterate over the numbers array, and push the even numbers to the evenNumbers array.

## Map
#### The map method transforms a collection by applying a function to all of its elements and building a new collection from the returned values.

## Reduce
#### The idea of reduce is to receive a function and a collection, and return a value created by combining the items.