# Call stack
#### A call stack is a mechanism for an interpreter (like the JavaScript interpreter in a web browser) to keep track of its place in a script that calls multiple functions — what function is currently being run and what functions are called from within that function.

### Example
``` 
function greeting() {
   // [1] Some code here
   sayHi();
   // [2] Some code here
}
function sayHi() {
   return "Hi!";
}

// Invoke the `greeting` function
greeting();
```
#### The code above would be executed like this:
1. Ignore all functions, until it reaches the greeting() function invocation.
2. Add the greeting() function to the call stack list.
3. Execute all lines of code inside the greeting() function.
4. Get to the sayHi() function invocation.
5. Add the sayHi() function to the call stack list.
6. Execute all lines of code inside the sayHi() function, until reaches its end.
7. Return execution to the line that invoked sayHi() and continue executing the rest of the greeting() function.
8. Delete the sayHi() function from our call stack list.
9. When everything inside the greeting() function has been executed, return to its invoking line to continue executing the rest of the JS code.
10. Delete the greeting() function from the call stack list.

## How does the call stack handle function calls?

```
function firstFunction(){
  console.log("Hello from firstFunction");
}

function secondFunction(){
  firstFunction();
  console.log("The end from secondFunction");
}

secondFunction();
```
1. When secondFunction() gets executed, an empty stack frame is created. It is the main (anonymous) entry point of the program.
2. secondFunction() then calls firstFunction()which is pushed into the stack.
3. firstFunction() returns and prints “Hello from firstFunction” to the console.
4. firstFunction() is pop off the stack.
5. The execution order then move to secondFunction().
6. secondFunction() returns and print “The end from secondFunction” to the console.
7. secondFunction() is pop off the stack, clearing the memory.

## What causes a stack overflow?
#### A stack overflow occurs when there is a recursive function (a function that calls itself) without an exit point. The browser (hosting environment) has a maximum stack call that it can accomodate before throwing a stack error.

## JavaScript error messages && debugging

### Types of error messages
### 1-Reference errors

#### This is as simple as when you try to use a variable that is not yet declared you get this type os errors.

### 2-Syntax errors

#### Occurs when you have something that cannot be parsed in terms of syntax, like when you try to parse an invalid object using JSON.parse.

### 3-Range errors
#### Try to manipulate an object with some kind of length and give it an invalid length and this kind of errors will show up.

### 4-Type errors
#### This types of errors show up when the types (number, string and so on) you are trying to use or access are incompatible, like accessing a property in an undefined type of variable.

## Debugging
#### To debug your JS code, the easiest and maybe the most common way its to simply console.log() the variables you want to check or, by using chrome developer tools, open your page with your JS code (press cmd+o in macOS or Ctrl+o in Windows) and choose your file to debug, click the line you wanna debug and refresh your page again (F5).
#### If the line you selected was run you will be able to see what has happened before that point and you can try and evaluate the next lines to check if everything is outputting what you are expecting.
#### The breakpoint can also be achieved by putting a debugger statement in your code in the line you want to break.

## Tools to avoid runtime errors
1. quokka: to evaluate your code as you type
2. eslint: to make sure your style guide is consistency and it will grab you an error or two along the way and