# EJS

### EJS is a simple templating language that lets you generate HTML markup with plain JavaScript. No religiousness about how to organize things. No reinvention of iteration and control-flow. It's just plain JavaScript.

 ## EJS Features

1. #### Fast compilation and rendering
2. #### Simple template tags: <% %>
3. #### Custom delimiters (e.g., use [? ?] instead of <% %>)
4. #### Sub-template includes
5. #### Ships with CLI
6. #### Both server JS and browser support
7. #### Static caching of intermediate JavaScript
8. #### Static caching of templates
9. #### Complies with the Express view system

## EJS Install
  ```
   $ npm install ejs
  
 ```
## EJS Use
  ```
  let ejs = require('ejs');
  let people = ['geddy', 'neil', 'alex'];
  let html = ejs.render('<%= people.join(", "); %>', {people: people});
  ``` 

## EJS Options
1. **cache** Compiled functions are cached, requires filename
2. **filename** Used by cache to key caches, and for includes
3. **root** Set project root for includes with an absolute path (e.g, /file.ejs). Can be array to try to resolve include from multiple directories.
3. **views** An array of paths to use when resolving includes with relative paths.
4. **context** Function execution context.
5. **compileDebug** When false no debug instrumentation is compiled
5. **client** Returns standalone compiled function
6. **delimiter** Character to use for inner delimiter, by default '%'
7. **openDelimiter** Character to use for opening delimiter, by default '<'
8. **closeDelimiter** Character to use for closing delimiter, by default '>'
9. **debug** Outputs generated function body
10. **strict** When set to `true`, generated function is in strict mode
11. **_with** Whether or not to use with() {} constructs. If false then the locals will be stored in the locals object. (Implies `--strict`)
12. **localsName** Name to use for the object storing local variables when not using with Defaults to locals
13. **rmWhitespace** Remove all safe-to-remove whitespace, including leading and trailing whitespace. It also enables a safer version of -%> line slurping for all scriptlet tags (it does not strip new lines of tags in the middle of a line).
14. **escape** The escaping function used with <%= construct. It is used in rendering and is .toString()ed in the generation of client functions. (By default escapes XML).
15. **outputFunctionName** Set to a string (e.g., 'echo' or 'print') for a function to print output inside scriptlet tags.
16. **async** When **true**, EJS will use an async function for rendering. (Depends on async/await support in the JS runtime.

## EJS Tags
1. <% 'Scriptlet' tag, for control-flow, no output
2. <%_ ‘Whitespace Slurping’ Scriptlet tag, strips all whitespace before it
3. <%= Outputs the value into the template (HTML escaped)
4. <%- Outputs the unescaped value into the template
5. <%# Comment tag, no execution, no output
6. <%% Outputs a literal '<%'
7. %> Plain ending tag
8. -%> Trim-mode ('newline slurp') tag, trims following newline
9. _%> ‘Whitespace Slurping’ ending tag, removes all whitespace after it