#  jQuery

#### jQuery offers a simple way to achieve a variety of common JavaScript tasks quickly and consistently, across all major browsers and without any fallback code needed. 

### SELECT ELEMENTS
##### It is simpler to access elements using jQuery's CSS-style selectors than it s using DOM queries. The selectors are also more powerful and flexible. 
### PERFORM TASKS 
##### jQuery's methods let you update the DOM tree, animate elements into and out of view, and loop through a set of elements, all in one line of code. 
### HANDLE EVENTS 
##### jQuery includes methods that allow you to attach event listeners to selected elements without having to write any tailback code to support older browsers.

## WHY USE JQUERY? 
1. SIMPLE SELECTORS.
2. COMMON TASKS IN LESS CODE.
3. CROSS-BROWSER COMPATIBILITY.

## LOOPING 
#### With jQuery, when a selector returns multiple elements, you can update all of them using the one method. There is no need to use a loop. 
## CHAINING
#### If you want to use more than one jQuery method on the same selection of elements, you can list several methods at a time using dot notation to separate each one.

## GETTING ELEMENT CONTENT 
#### The • htm 1 () and • text () methods both retrieve and update the content of elements. This page will focus on how to retrieve element content. To learn how to update element content.
1. . html() 
#### When this method is used to retrieve information from a jQuery selection, it retrieves only the HTML inside the first element in the matched set, along with any of its descendants.

2. . text() 
#### When this method is used to retrieve the text from a jQuery selection, it returns the content from every element in the jQuery selection, along with the text from any descendants.

## UPDATING ELEMENTS 
#### When the • htm 1 () and . text () methods are used as setters (to update content) they will replace the content of each element in the matched set (along with any content and child elements). 
#### The . rep 1 aceWith () and . remove () methods replace and remove the elements they match (as well as their content and any child elements).

#### The .html(),. text(), and . rep 1 aceWi th () methods can take a string as a parameter. 
#### The string can: 
1.  Be stored in a variable.
2. Contain markup.

## INSERTING ELEMENTS
#### Inserting new elements involves two steps:
1. Create the new elements in a jQuery object.
#### The following statement creates a variable called $newFragment and stores a jQuery object in it. The jQuery object is set to contain an empty ```<li>``` element:```var $newFragment = $('<li>'}; ```
2. Use a method to insert the content into the page.
### .before() 
#### This method inserts content before the selected element(s) . 
### .prepend() 
#### This method inserts content inside the selected element(s), after the opening tag. 
### .after() 
#### This method inserts content after the selected element(s). 
### .append() 
#### This method inserts content inside the selected element(s), before the closing tag. 

## GETTING AND SETTING ATTRIBUTE VALUES 
#### You can work with any attribute on any element using the attr() and r emoveAttr() methods. 
### .attr() 
#### This method can get or set a specified attribute and its value. To get the value of an attribute, you specify the name of the attribute in the parentheses. 
### . removeAttr() 
#### This method removes a specified attribute (and its value). You just specify the name of the attribute that you want to remove from the element in the parentheses.

## GETTING & SETTING CSS PROPERTIES
#### The . css () method lets you retrieve and set the values of CSS properties. 
```
var backgroundColor = $( ' li ' ) . css( 'background-color' ); 
```
## WORKING WITH EACH ELEMENT IN A SELECTION
#### jQuery allows you to recreate the functionality of a loop on a selection of elements, using the • each () method. 
#### • each() Allows you to perform one or more statements on each of the items in the selection of elements that is returned by a selector - rather like a loop in JavaScript. It takes one parameter: a function containing the statements you want to run on each element. 
```
$('li').each(function() { 
var ids= this.id; 
${this).append(' <em class="order">' +ids+ '</ em>'); 
3 
)); 
``` 
## EVENT METHODS
#### The • on () method is used to handle all events. 
```

$('li') .on('click', function() {  
$(this) .addClass( ' complete'); 
} ) ; 
``` 

##### To learn more abour jQuery, please read JavaScript and jQuery book by Jon Duckett, ch7.
