# REST

#### is an architectural style for providing standards between computer systems on the web, making it easier for systems to communicate with each other.

## Separation of Client and Server

#### In the REST architectural style, the implementation of the client and the implementation of the server can be done independently without each knowing about the other. This means that the code on the client side can be changed at any time without affecting the operation of the server, and the code on the server side can be changed without affecting the operation of the client.
#### As long as each side knows what format of messages to send to the other, they can be kept modular and separate. Separating the user interface concerns from the data storage concerns, we improve the flexibility of the interface across platforms and improve scalability by simplifying the server components. Additionally, the separation allows each component the ability to evolve independently. By using a REST interface, different clients hit the same REST endpoints, perform the same actions, and receive the same responses.

## Statelessness
#### Systems that follow the REST paradigm are stateless, meaning that the server does not need to know anything about what state the client is in and vice versa. In this way, both the server and the client can understand any message received, even without seeing previous messages. This constraint of statelessness is enforced through the use of resources, rather than commands. Resources are the nouns of the Web - they describe any object, document, or thing that you may need to store or send to other services.

## Communication between Client and Server
#### In the REST architecture, clients send requests to retrieve or modify resources, and servers send responses to these requests. Let’s take a look at the standard ways to make requests and send responses.

## Making Requests 
#### REST requires that a client make a request to the server in order to retrieve or modify data on the server. A request generally consists of:

1. an HTTP verb, which defines what kind of operation to perform
2. a header, which allows the client to pass along information about the request
3. a path to a resource
4. an optional message body containing data

## Paths

#### Requests must contain a path to a resource that the operation should be performed on. In RESTful APIs, paths should be designed to help the client know what is going on. Conventionally, the first part of the path should be the plural form of the resource. This keeps nested paths simple to read and easy to understand.
#### Paths should contain the information necessary to locate a resource with the degree of specificity needed. When referring to a list or collection of resources, it is not always necessary to add an id

## Sending Responses (Content Types)

#### In cases where the server is sending a data payload to the client, the server must include a content-type in the header of the response. This content-type header field alerts the client to the type of data it is sending in the response body. These content types are MIME Types, just as they are in the accept field of the request header. The content-type that the server sends back in the response should be one of the options that the client specified in the accept field of the request.

