# SQL

#### SQL, or Structured Query Language, is a language designed to allow both technical and non-technical users query, manipulate, and transform data from a relational database. And due to its simplicity, SQL databases provide safe and scalable storage for millions of websites and mobile applications.

## Relational databases

#### A relational database represents a collection of related (two-dimensional) tables. Each of the tables are similar to an Excel spreadsheet, with a fixed number of named columns (the attributes or properties of the table) and any number of rows of data.
## Why we need to learn SQL
#### By learning SQL, the goal is to learn how to answer specific questions about this data, like "What types of vehicles are on the road have less than four wheels?", or "How many models of cars does Tesla produce?", to help us make better decisions down the road.

## SELECT queries
#### To retrieve data from a SQL database, we need to write SELECT statements, which are often colloquially refered to as queries. A query in itself is just a statement which declares what data we are looking for, where to find it in the database, and optionally, how to transform it before it is returned.


### Example:
```
SELECT column, another_column, …
FROM mytable;
```

#### The result of this query will be a two-dimensional set of rows and columns, effectively a copy of the table, but only with the columns that we requested.

## Queries with constraints
#### In order to filter certain results from being returned, we need to use a WHERE clause in the query. The clause is applied to each row of data by checking specific column values to determine whether it should be included in the results or not.

```
SELECT column, another_column, …
FROM mytable
WHERE condition
    AND/OR another_condition
    AND/OR …;
```

### *NOTE:
####  SQL doesn't require you to write the keywords all capitalized, but as a convention, it helps people distinguish SQL keywords from column and tables names, and makes the query easier to read.

## Filtering and sorting Query results

####  SQL provides a convenient way to discard rows that have a duplicate column value by using the DISTINCT keyword.
```
SELECT DISTINCT column, another_column, …
FROM mytable
WHERE condition(s);
```
### Ordering results
#### SQL provides a way to sort your results by a given column in ascending or descending order using the ORDER BY clause.
```
SELECT column, another_column, …
FROM mytable
WHERE condition(s)
ORDER BY column ASC/DESC;
```

### Limiting results to a subset
#### The LIMIT and OFFSET clauses, are a useful optimization to indicate to the database the subset of the results you care about.The LIMIT will reduce the number of rows to return, and the optional OFFSET will specify where to begin counting the number rows from.

```
SELECT column, another_column, …
FROM mytable
WHERE condition(s)
ORDER BY column ASC/DESC
LIMIT num_limit OFFSET num_offset;
```
### *NOTE:
#### If you are curious about when the LIMIT and OFFSET are applied relative to the other parts of a query, they are generally done last after the other clauses have been applied. 

## Inserting rows
### What is a Schema?
#### The database schema is what describes the structure of each table, and the datatypes that each column of the table can contain. This fixed structure is what allows a database to be efficient, and consistent despite storing millions or even billions of rows.

## Inserting new data
#### When inserting data into a database, we need to use an INSERT statement, which declares which table to write into, the columns of data that we are filling, and one or more rows of data to insert.
```
INSERT INTO mytable
VALUES (value_or_expr, another_value_or_expr, …),
       (value_or_expr_2, another_value_or_expr_2, …),
       …;
```
## Creating tables
#### When you have new entities and relationships to store in your database, you can create a new database table using the CREATE TABLE statement.
```
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS mytable (
    column DataType TableConstraint DEFAULT default_value,
    another_column DataType TableConstraint DEFAULT default_value,
    …
);
```


